[MUSIC]
>> Ben Callahan: So
again all these links are in the slide, so
you'll be to get to those as needed, if
you're curious about playing with those.
Over the lunch hour there somebody
was asking me about the idea
of loading content sort of separate,
different content for smaller screens.
And traditionally,
before responsive came on the scene,
this is kinda how we handled mobile,
right.
We had mobile specific sites, and
a lot of people are still doing that,
even with some good success.
But I'm sort of the opinion that if it's
possible for you to build a single site,
that can work well across resolutions,
you should probably do that,
making a lot of assumptions about what
users need when want based purely on
the width of their viewport is pretty
slippery slope, in my opinion.
So this is a, but however,
there are times when you might
want to do something like that.
And sometimes even just for
performance sake.
So, these are some tools.
This idea of this Ajax include pattern,
The Filament Group developed this,
and we'll take a look here and
take a look at the demo of theirs and
then an actual live working example.
>> Ben Callahan: Okay.
>> Ben Callahan: So
this is a little JavaScript library called
Ajax-Include-Pattern.
Excuse me, my voice is getting
a little scratchy here.
You can kind of see how they
have intended this to work.
It's actually really, really simple.
They're using these data attributes here.
So these data attributes are being
used to sort of indicate,
in this case a replacement, this is a
partial, articles latest fragment of HTML
or something that could be pulled in, and
there's a data replace attribute there.
Now, if you look a little
bit further down,
they also have a data media attribute.
So data replace combined with the data
media will allow you to say when
a certain media query is true I want you
to replace this with some other content,
a partial that you would pull in.
That request would be made
asynchronously after the page loads.
So really kind of cool stuff.
I'll show you kind of a demo here.
So this is just a basic page, okay, no
styles applied here but you get the idea.
You can see that there's a list
of related external links.
So in this case,
what they've decided is that those
external links are not necessary content.
So if I refresh my page at a smaller
view port width, those links don't load.
And now if I,
>> Ben Callahan: Take my
browser out when I cross over that
threshold we make a request to load that
content in asynchronously.
So, really kind of a cool, kind of a cool
technique, very, very simple to use.
Just a little bit of code on this thing,
a little bit of,
>> Ben Callahan: Oops,
these data attributes, just dead simple,
data-after, data-media, right there.
So I mean just a very simple way to get
this kind of stuff to load depending on
what what media queries are true or false.
>> Speaker 2: Want some more water?
>> Ben Callahan: I have some thank you.
Sorry I just wasn't taking a drink of it.
[COUGH] Appreciate that.
So let's take a look at an example of
this pattern being used in the wild.
I was mentioning this
to some folks earlier.
Yeah sure.
So, the new People's site,
the new mobile People's site.
Josh Clark worked on this and actually I
think Ethan even did some work on this,
but you can kinda see what
happens here with their site.
And watch what happens if I
disable JavaScript on this page.
Okay.
So we still get a lot of good content.
But you'll notice that I'm only getting
four this kind of lead stories here.
All right.
And as soon as I turn JavaScript back on,
you'll see that I'm loading it a lot more,
and now this at smaller resolutions,
what happens is they shift
the interaction model.
You can actually swipe this entire
element to the left and to the right and
you can see sort of
an indication of pagination.
And again with JavaScript disabled here.
The pagination goes away.
You just get a single,
a single page of content.
So what they've done, is made a decision
that they're gonna load some content in,
after the fact, based on certain
parameters that they've chosen.
So really kind of a really
nice implementation.
I think we're gonna start to see those
kinds of things happen a lot more,
especially in the cases where, in fact,
I could see them leaving this off at
small resolutions and saying,
if you're on a small device,
we'll give you the first four stories and
a link to go read more.
So there's lots of different ways
that you could implement that.
>> Ben Callahan: Take a look at how
that site is built, that m.people.com.,
there's a lot of really
cool things going on there.
They've done some interesting
work with advertising, too.
And how it kind of fits
into a responsive approach,
which is significantly challenging so.
[COUGH] Okay.
We talked already about the Polyfill for
picture.
This is another huge way that we
can use JavaScript in Responsive
to start to kind of implement these future
elements in HTML that we really
kind of need a solution for this.
And Scott's done such a great
job of implementing this and
getting something that's very
usable out into the community.
And then eCSSential is another
one Scott's worked on.
This is to try and solve the problem
of making too many requests for
CSS that really aren't needed.
What this does is,
based on media queries again,
it will sort of, using JavaScript, it will
load in the appropriate style sheets.
And it will even do
some really cool stuff.
So it'll look to see, is it possible for
the device or the user
agent to reach a certain resolution.
So like a phone.
I could never get my iPhone to
be 1024 in resolution, right?
So there's no need for
it to ever request a style that's
linked to with a min-width 1024 on it.
It should never download that but it does.
And eCSSential will allow you
to sort of limit those requests,
only to what's possible for
the device for the user agent.
Take a quick look at that one.
>> Ben Callahan: And it's actually
very simple to implement as well.
You can kinda see here how it's working.
>> Ben Callahan: So again in the head of
the document, include the JavaScript and
then using this syntax,
you can very simply say,
this stylesheet should only
be applied when this is true.
This one when this is true.
And it'll basically
figure out what's true.
It will figure out what's
true immediately, and
make those requests instantly, and then
it will to look to see if there are style
sheets which might be needed in the
future, and then it will load those later,
and then if there are style
sheets that can never be used,
it just won't even request those.
And then he demonstrates
a no script fallback here,
where you would maybe link
to a handful of those.
Questions on how this can work?
There's actually a demo of this
as well in the retrofitting
repository if you're curious
about seeing this work.
And then just a couple other
fun kinds of things you can do.
FitText is done by a Paravel,
those guys in in Austin.
You can watch how this text, so
this is actually web type here, but you
can see how the text itself is adjusting
its width to stay 100% of its container.
So in cases where you've got
a big bold headline like this and
you want it to just get
huge as its container does,
you can use this little bit of JavaScript
and it gives you a multiplication
factor and you can use it to get
your text to fit right in there.
There's another one called
slab text I think which
works a little bit differently but
same idea.
There's actually, interestingly enough,
there's a new unit of measure
in CSS that's being recommended, I think
it's VW, viewport width instead of like
you know or rem but VW would let you do
this kind of in the browser natively.
You could set the size of the font
based on the view port width.
Pretty cool stuff.
And then again, if you're trying to
solve the responsive video thing,
you could kind of do that with a little
bit of JavaScript obviously as well.
Fitvid JS does that pretty well.
So there's tons and tons and
tons of these little tools.
Okay, they're all over the web.
They're all over the web.
I mean, if you come across a problem
that you just cannot come up with
a solution for in CSS and HTML,
start to do some searching for
these kinds of polyfills and little
libraries like this, they can really help.
>> Ben Callahan: Any other
questions on this stuff?
We could probably spend an entire day
talking about responsive JavaScript if we
really dug into that code.
But there's a lot,
there's a lot to cover there.
>> Ben Callahan: Okay.